---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "pinecone_indexes Data Source - terraform-provider-pinecone"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Indexes data source
---

# pinecone_indexes (Data Source)

Indexes data source

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    pinecone = {
      source = "skyscrapr/pinecone"
    }
  }
}

provider "pinecone" {
  environment = "gcp-starter"
  # api_key = set via PINECONE_API_KEY env variable
}

resource "pinecone_index" "test" {
  name = "tftestindex"
  spec = {
    serverless = {
      cloud  = "aws"
      region = "us-west-2"
    }
  }
}

data "pinecone_indexes" "test" {
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) Indexes identifier
- `indexes` (Attributes List) List of the indexes in your project (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--indexes))

<a id="nestedatt--indexes"></a>
### Nested Schema for `indexes`

Optional:

- `spec` (Attributes) Spec (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--indexes--spec))
- `status` (Attributes) Configuration for the behavior of Pinecone's internal metadata index. By default, all metadata is indexed; when metadata_config is present, only specified metadata fields are indexed. To specify metadata fields to index, provide an array of the following form: [example_metadata_field] (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--indexes--status))

Read-Only:

- `dimension` (Number) Index dimension
- `host` (String) The URL address where the index is hosted.
- `metric` (String) Index metric
- `name` (String) Index name

<a id="nestedatt--indexes--spec"></a>
### Nested Schema for `indexes.spec`

Optional:

- `pod` (Attributes) Configuration needed to deploy a pod-based index. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--indexes--spec--pod))
- `serverless` (Attributes) Configuration needed to deploy a serverless index. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--indexes--spec--serverless))

<a id="nestedatt--indexes--spec--pod"></a>
### Nested Schema for `indexes.spec.pod`

Optional:

- `metadata_config` (Attributes) Configuration for the behavior of Pinecone's internal metadata index. By default, all metadata is indexed; when metadata_config is present, only specified metadata fields are indexed. These configurations are only valid for use with pod-based indexes. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--indexes--spec--pod--metadata_config))

Read-Only:

- `environment` (String) The environment where the index is hosted.
- `pod_type` (String) The type of pod to use. One of s1, p1, or p2 appended with . and one of x1, x2, x4, or x8.
- `pods` (Number) The number of pods to be used in the index. This should be equal to shards x replicas.'
- `replicas` (Number) The number of replicas. Replicas duplicate your index. They provide higher availability and throughput. Replicas can be scaled up or down as your needs change.
- `shards` (Number) The number of shards. Shards split your data across multiple pods so you can fit more data into an index.
- `source_collection` (String) The name of the collection to create an index from.

<a id="nestedatt--indexes--spec--pod--metadata_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `indexes.spec.pod.source_collection`

Read-Only:

- `indexed` (List of String) The indexed fields.



<a id="nestedatt--indexes--spec--serverless"></a>
### Nested Schema for `indexes.spec.serverless`

Read-Only:

- `cloud` (String) Ready.
- `region` (String) Initializing InitializationFailed ScalingUp ScalingDown ScalingUpPodSize ScalingDownPodSize Upgrading Terminating Ready



<a id="nestedatt--indexes--status"></a>
### Nested Schema for `indexes.status`

Read-Only:

- `ready` (Boolean) Ready.
- `state` (String) Initializing InitializationFailed ScalingUp ScalingDown ScalingUpPodSize ScalingDownPodSize Upgrading Terminating Ready
