---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "pinecone_project Resource - terraform-provider-pinecone"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The pinecone_project resource lets you create and manage projects in Pinecone. Projects are organizational units that contain indexes and collections.
---

# pinecone_project (Resource)

The `pinecone_project` resource lets you create and manage projects in Pinecone. Projects are organizational units that contain indexes and collections.

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    pinecone = {
      source = "pinecone-io/pinecone"
    }
  }
}

provider "pinecone" {}

resource "pinecone_project" "test" {
  name = "terraform-test-project"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the project to be created.

### Optional

- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `created_at` (String) The date and time when the project was created.
- `force_encryption_with_cmek` (Boolean) Whether to force encryption with a customer-managed encryption key (CMEK).
- `id` (String) Project identifier
- `max_pods` (Number) The maximum number of Pods that can be created in the project.
- `organization_id` (String) The organization ID that the project belongs to.

<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
